
A Wheel-Winged Icarus
The bike was blue, its Y-shaped handlebars proudly proclaiming its status as a child's first taste of freedom on two wheels. Well, four wheels, if you count the training wheels mounted comically high on the back axle.
I gripped the textured rubber handlebars with the finesse of a cycling pro, my face a mask of determination one would expect to see on the frontrunner of the Tour de France, not a six-year-old kid barely tall enough to look over his apartment complex’s half-walls. My "high-speed bike training" arena? My apartment’s skinny, curved courtyard — fifteen meters of prime cycling real estate. These moments would be my genesis — in years and decades to come, I imagined people coming to this part of Southern Jakarta to marvel at the very surface on which the greatest cyclist first honed his mind and body to the craft.
Taking long and slow breaths, I set my sights on my lofty goal: going as fast as I could in the space I had between one potted plant and another. Nothing could stop me in this noble pursuit. My determination was unquestionable, my willpower unwavering, and my utter lack of actual cycling skill irrelevant.
Pushing through the discomfort of the tropical Jakarta heat (since true athletes always train in the most punishing conditions), I took one last deep breath, readying myself for a feat of speed that would simultaneously revolutionize cycling, confound physicists, and inspire myths the world over. I wound up my six-year-old legs, standing off the seat for a moment to channel all my weight into the first push. This was my moment. 
The wind whistled through the holes in my helmet as the wheels of my bike almost floated over unpolished marble. I gained speed and I could feel my features stretch back as the air buffeted me. At that same time, the tropical heat conspired against me, smiting me by sending salty sweat that stung my eyes. Doubtless, it was jealous Mother Nature, aware of my intentions to break her laws, sabotaging me. For a moment, I released my left hand from its firm grip on the handle, wiping an especially dangerous bead of sweat threatening to roll directly into my eye, intercepting its trajectory.
And while many more droplets came in its place, I steeled my resolve. I could push through. I reached back out for the handle and gripped it tight, naïve in my optimism about that sweat-wipe maneuver. Crisis averted, I heard an imaginary control room operator say. The consequences of my arrogance were clever, though; like a lion stalking their prey, they laid in wait for the perfect moment to strike. 
Only as my hand regained its grip on the blue rubber, however, did I realize that my collision with the opposite wall of painted plaster was imminent. Any lesser athlete would have frozen in that moment. But in my calm, I pressed my body closer to the bike and prepared to swerve. 
With complete self-assurance, I shifted my weight to my left side and leaned, my wheels feeling as though they could have carved up the marble in their steep descent. And at that very moment, the sweat I had just removed from my brow conspired with gravity to similarly remove my hand from that textured handlebar. The lion had pounced.
The move that I envisioned as a skid-into-heroic-pose devolved into a spectacular crash into the stone-tiled wall. Before I could even shout out in surprise, my small chest met the unforgiving stone like a fledgling bird discovering a newly-cleaned window. All the breath rushed out of my lungs as my legs were comically tangled in the bike’s metal frame — my trusty steed now a ball and chain.
As my nanny screamed and worked frantically to extricate me from my self-made predicament, my pride swelled. I don’t need your help! I thought to scream, although the distinct lack of air in my lungs prevented me from doing so. The immobility of my legs, too, served as evidence to the contrary. In a few moments, she carried me out of the brutal scene and rushed me back up to the apartment. For a moment, I imagined myself like a great warrior of old, returning battered, bruised, but victorious — a Spartan returning from war carried by his comrades on his shield, having slain many in glorious and honorable combat.
Pulling up my shirt in the mirror confirmed without a doubt that while I was battered and bruised, I remained a few triumphs removed from being a victor. A blue stripe stretched across my abdomen, darkening by the second and perfectly matching the color of my traitorous bike. Like a modern-day, not-so-graceful Icarus, I had been punished for flying too close to the sun — if by “sun” we mean “apartment complex half-wall.”
I could only surmise that the universe, clearly threatened by my awe-inspiring bike-riding prowess, chose to strike me down that day. During the remainder of my recovery, I went into a forced hiatus during which my bike-riding abilities would take the backseat to the rigors of first grade. And like a Lovecraftian Old One, my elite athleticism would be forced into a slumber, prophesied to return on some fateful day.

It wasn’t for another almost nine years that I would come back around to biking, as it was only when my family and I moved to Singapore that I rediscovered enjoyment on two wheels. For the first few months exhausted after just thirty-minute bikes with my dad, I grew familiar with the area around my home and began biking on my own — now finding peace in a refreshing mix of ever-changing scenery and the sense of exploration that came with finding new paths, meeting new people, doing new things. 
In the last few months of my time in Singapore, I’d wake up every Saturday at seven in the morning and, quickly throwing on a quick-dry shirt and exercise shorts, I’d pocket my phone, put in some earbuds, and quietly wheel my bike down the elevator and onto the road. Carefully clinging to the dollars in my pocket, I remember standing up in my bike seat, and, with my full weight, sending myself off into the dawn. The sun would only have begun its ascent by the time I was guiding myself alongside the winding Singapore river…
Before I even realize it, the sun is two-thirds of the way to its peak and I reach the public park that stretches along the whole eastern seaboard of the island. East Coast Park. The sun filters through the waving trees overhead while the freshness of the sea breeze makes me feel like a lone seabird, each push of the pedals another flap of my wings. To my right, the ocean’s beating tide pulses, moving in and out of step with my own rhythm as I carefully weave around passers-by, lonely joggers, and picnicking families enjoying the beautiful weather that revealed itself only in the few weeks between Singapore’s many months of rainy and sunny extremes.
But as I float down the concrete street that runs through the whole park, the smallest nibble at my legs alerts me to my fatigue. With the assurance that I am biking on my own time, I lean into a turn off the road and step off my bike, my sneaker soles meeting East Coast Park’s thick-leafed grass below with the loamy shifting of dirt.
Stepping out of a nearby coffee shop with iced coffee in hand, I walk myself just outside the treeline. Here, I lay down my bike gently and take my seat next to it, looking out on the ocean as the sun, so slow as to seem stationary, watches me from its place in the cloud-dotted sky. It bathes me in its warm glow, and I squint at the sky as blue rolls past blue. A bird flies overhead, leaving the land and flying out into the sea. Its gliding silhouette seems to punch a hole in the sky as it melts away from view, a dot.
It’s then that the unavoidable question sneaks up from the back of my psyche and turns my attention elsewhere: how, just three months ago, I opened the Groton School admissions portal to be welcomed by an acceptance letter from Dean of Admissions Ian Gracey and digital, tricolor confetti all over my screen. But what about home? I paused; it was an odd question. What even is home? I considered the crossroads at which I then found myself. The weight of my decision, although not due for another two months, sat heavy on my shoulders. For a little while longer, I sat.
It’s only after a few moments — and the whole grande iced coffee — that the sunlight becomes overwhelming. A singular bead of sweat rolling down my forehead brings my discomfort into focus and reins in my wandering thoughts. With some effort, I bring myself to my feet. I wipe the sweat from my brow and ready my bike. I grab a hold of the rubberized handles and, taking a moment to wipe my wet hand on my shirt, I press on.
It is another hour before I reach my destination — or my halfway point, if you count the bike ride back home. The bike lock lets out a definitive click and a wiggle of the bike frame confirms it. Parting with my steed for a short while, I walk into the newly-unveiled addition to the Singapore airport: the Jewel. In that dome of metal and glass, a hollowed-out center features a waterfall that falls from the ceiling. The sun filters through the glass and the water, creating rainbows that overlap one another in the air. On all sides, the spiraling, shifting column is hemmed in by trees, shrubs, and foliage of every kind, leaning towards the center as if the water was whispering a secret they wanted to know. I walk around the mall, the water’s secrets a constant hum behind the late Saturday morning bustle of tourists and shop owners, parents and their children. 
I choose to sit down in a Shake Shack — then a novelty in Singapore — and, with my pocket money, place my order. One seat in particular calls my name: one with the best view of the waterfall and the skylight, right up against the railing that opened into the mall’s central atrium. Sitting with the buzzer in hand, I continue my skywatching through the crystalline dome. It’s through that skylight that a plane passes by. And in a brief instant, through the droplets suspended in the air, the pilot is visible — his face a mask of concentration as he carefully pulls back the plane’s yoke and ascends into the sky above, joining the birds, the clouds, and the sun. 
My mind wandering yet again, I imagine myself flying, for a moment, in that plane. Sitting in that seat bound for a destination on the opposite side of the world — some town a little west of Boston that I had never before seen in person. A place where the people are odd, the culture is different, and I have nobody to drive me around or to fish me out of the bike crashes I’d get into. My mind turns its focus south-east, back home. People are there. People I know. People I depend on. Friends. Would I return to that? I close my eyes for a moment, though when I open them, the plane has departed, leaving a blue and unobstructed sky.
Then, against that sky, I can see myself flying where the plane once was, pedaling my bike and flapping my wings as I ascended into it — joining the birds, the clouds, and that solitary sun. I’m flying through the breezes that spin above the clouds. I’m a dot, and that dot is flying somewhere. Somewhere where I’ll have to learn to fly on my own. I blink. Then I’m gone. The sky is blue again. 
